Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing the
show number four 84. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Michelle Rogers about systems thinking, Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today I'm talking
with Keisha Rogers, she's the
CEO and founder of the
web Smith of web development
company. Thanks for chatting with
me. Thanks for having me,
Scott. I appreciate it. No,
no problem. So we were
talking a little bit earlier
just to kind of prep
for the show and the
topic for today is about
you. People need to learn
to code there's learned to
code movement, or is this
the wrong way to go
about things? I think you've
got some really great opinions
about this. Yes, definitely. I'm
here at Webb Smith group.
We have what we call
a student innovation program and
we do quite a bit
of work with students that
are entering the technology industry.
And what I found is
two issues that I'm seeing.
A lot of them know
how to code where I'm
seeing some challenges is in
how they think. So we
like to call it systems
based thinking. We spend a
lot of time thinking and
less time coding because we're
seeing people write great code
for the wrong reasons, or
they're writing too much code
and result in bloated code
and systems that you must
maintain. I think about a
system it's one of those
words. That's just so vague
that there's a certain level
of, of maturity, whether it
be emotional maturity or age,
or, you know, you have
to go through a certain
amount of school. I tried
it on my seven year
old. I tried it on
my nine year old. I
tried it on my nephew.
Who's 15. It wasn't until
I got to my 20
year old niece, that, that
concept of like, there are
systems and systems have complexity
and workflow that she was
able to kind of grasp
that. Yes, systems is a,
it's such a big word
that, and a lot of
times it's used in different
ways. So when we say
systems, we're thinking about an
interconnected set of methods or
procedures that work together to
accomplish a goal. So that's
what we mean by systems
and, and having coders think
more broad in their code
and how it fits into
a bigger, larger system. It
seems also that at least
I have felt that the
concept of layers of abstraction
and the idea that we're
standing on the shoulders of
giants has been, I believe,
largely forgotten with this learn
to code movement. We're teaching
all these people how to
do a for loop, but
they don't really understand how
the computer works. Yes, yes,
yes. We're finding a lot
of those particularly. I love
attending the hackathons. I think
it's great. A great practice
practice. It keeps people on
their toes, but a lot
of what I'm saying, you
know, people are using, you
know, conditional statements for loops
or res in ways that
are not needed, but there's
no time for them to
really think through it. And
so I'd like to see
more, more attention paid to
thinking through an issue. And
then you have to have
a great vocabulary for code
to determine if a conditional
statement or a loop or
some of these other methods
are appropriate for the problem
that you're trying to solve.
Right. I find that some
of the best interview questions,
aren't the ones that are
asking you about the detailed
aspects of a language, but
are things like when you
type google.com and a browser,
describe what happens. Yes. Yes.
That's a lot of that
is lost particularly in the
web industry because there's so
many layers to running a
web or mobile application. We
have named servers, domain, registrars.
There's so many players that
play in the, in that
space that can affect your
web application. And I'm finding
a lot where people are
focused on their piece of
the equation and where you
find the challenge is when
things start to break. And
that's when you understand that
people don't understand how things
work when something breaks and
you can't work your way
out of it. If it's
not your code, then how
do you troubleshoot it? How
do you know if it's
the domain name? It could
be the server. It could
be, you know, host headers.
It could be a lot
of different things that could
be wrong. Yes. Yeah. The
analogy that I've used a
lot with success was that
I was fortunate enough when
I bought my first car.
It was a $300 car
that my dad wouldn't let
me drive it. Cause it
was an automatic, he didn't
believe two things. He said,
if you're going to have
a car, even this $300
crap car, you need to
be able to drive a
manual stick shift, because that's
important to know the system.
And I won't let you
drive a car until you've
changed the oil once. Yeah.
Yes, yes, yes. It is
important. And, and using that
analogy and thinking about code,
I think it's important for
any code or any programmer
to deploy their solution. So,
you know, if they're coding
it, then they should deploy
it so that they understand
how things work. At least
from that perspective of deployment,
you learn a lot of
that in deploying an application,
Right? The idea of being
the dev ops person, as
opposed to just throwing the
code over the wall. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. Yeah. I've always
felt that people should actually
have a system that they
care about that isn't mission
critical, but it really ought
to be up 24 hours.
So I've recommended at least
in the past that you
try to write a blog,
you don't write WordPress, but
write something basic and try
to keep it up, Keep
it up and running. And
you'd be surprised how much
you have to learn in
that process. You got to,
and depending on the complexity
of the blog, you know,
you learn about IP addresses,
a domain name, you're dealing
with the server administrators and
that there's so much that's
involved in keeping a blog
up and running. So one
of the things that I
appreciated about your perspective on
this is that this idea
of, of patterns, of behaviors,
of evolution, of things over
time, it seems like a
lot of people don't think
about how processes and systems
evolve over time. Yes. Yes.
One of the biggest lessons
that I've had in my
experience as a developer, I've
been in the industry about
20 years. And I would
say that one of the
bigger mistakes we've all made
mistakes was in working on
a project where, you know,
I was simply asked to
code, you know, let's say
a time sheet, a form.
And you know, just keeping
in that silo. What I
learned was that that form
was actually being used to
populate a payroll system, which
is a mission critical system.
And there's some questions that
I didn't ask. So this
was like 15 years ago.
And so in thinking about,
systems-based thinking it's really important
to really think about the
bigger picture and how things
evolve and why you were
being asked to develop the
solution that you're asking, who
are the players that are
gonna, that are gonna use
it. How does it impact
other systems around it? Right.
Those things might change the
way you're going to do
validation of your data, how
important it is that your
data is clean. Yes, yes.
Data must be clean on
any system that you're interacting
with. Also it's, it's important
that those systems have validation
checks and balances as well.
So these are some conversations
that we often don't have
because people often work in
silos. And you're kind of
thinking about your piece of
the puzzle. And that's one
of the challenges in writing
code. It comes in the
backend in maintaining and supporting
the code. You learn that
you didn't ask the question.
And so there's a bottleneck
or something that isn't working
as well as it should.
It seems like in really
complicated systems where I would
not expect to see silos.
I see them. For example,
I often I, when met,
I used Toyota, they're local.
I have a Toyota. So
when I go get the
car oil fixed, I am
shocked at how many systems
do what I call on
the glass integration, where they
have two systems and they
use the clipboard to integrate
those systems. Like you see
this time and time again.
Yes, yes, yes. Yeah. You
see it over. I mean,
you can see it over
and over their systems that
are in it's popular retail.
I see it a lot
in retail spaces. And again,
that's another example of when
systems are developed in silos,
they often don't work very
seamlessly because you have to
take a step back and
look at not just the
systems themselves, but the connections
between the system so that
everything works very seamlessly. Right.
It seems like people just
in those cases just didn't
think about it. There's some,
yeah. Some chief architect didn't
exist. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I
mean, you know, and it
happens and it's very easy
as you, as you evolve
systems over time, a lot
of times decisions are made
business roles and you kind
of just hack away at
the code over time. And
what ends up happening is
you have bloated code. There
are business rules and embedded
in the code. And as
people come and go and
organizations as teams coming, though,
you have these parts of
code that don't function very
well, that you never learn
about until something breaks. And
then you realize, okay, this
does this no longer fit.
So this is not like
a one time approach that
you would use at the
beginning of the project. This
is something that should be
ongoing. Yeah. I would think
though, that some people, perhaps
people who are listening to
this show might feel that
they are just a cog
in the machine. They may
not be the chief architect
so well while they know
they are in a silo
and that they know that
they are building a thing
that flows into another thing,
they may feel they have
no control over that. And
they may not be able
to get involved and make
it better at a larger
scope. Cause that's not simply
not their scope, Their scope.
And I think in a
lot of larger organizations, it's
pretty easy to, to be
able to say that, you
know, I have no control
over it, but my philosophy
is that, you know, in
terms of programming, the job
is not to code the
job is to think. And
so it doesn't require a
lot to ask questions about
things that are gonna impact
whatever it is that you've
been assigned to work on.
I think everyone should take
responsibility for knowing how your
slice of code is impacted
in the organization and how
it impacts other systems around
it so that you can
write better code. And even
it may, the solution may
not even require writing more
code. And that should always
be an option as well.
Yeah. I always like to
be able to refactor via
subtraction. So one of the
things that I'm struggling with
with my kids is for
them to think about things
that they interact with as
part of a larger system.
And I always come, I
want to jokes. I was
making actually this morning with
the kids was a, they
want to toast for breakfast.
So I threatened to make
them take the toaster apart
and put it back together
before I would make any
toast for them. Because from
their perspective, the toaster is
magic. Everything's magic. And I
mean, thinking about, you know,
how we deal with clients,
customers, and colleagues, you know,
it all seems like magic.
You know, you go off,
you write code and you
come back and we hear
the word push buttons a
lot, you know, you kind
of push buttons and it's
really important to understand how
things work and why they
work the way they work.
I have to speak to
my daughter a lot about
like Minecraft uses Minecraft a
lot and plays games. And
we talk a lot about
how those games were developed.
And what I've learned is
that the more she's interested
in how things were developed
and how they evolved, she
becomes more interested in learning
those things herself. So those
are some of the things
that I think are also
appealing to potential technologists that
we're not really focusing on.
I find that a lot
of the coding activities are
very mundane, hello world, you
know, things that don't interest
them at all. And I
think that we could tackle
some real world issues and
doing some of these activities.
And I feel like they
would be a lot more
interested in using coding as
a tool to develop solutions.
Right. I feel if people
had a view of how
their silo fit into a
larger system, they would look
at systems like, you know,
if this, then that, but
I have TTT and say,
Oh, you know, I like
Instagram and I like Facebook.
Maybe I can grab, you
know, I can, you know,
if I post to Instagram,
then put the file in
Dropbox and stick it in.
But it seems like there's
a, there's a, a mindset
that that's immediately intuitive to.
Yeah. And then there is
the person who, that isn't
intuitive to, and I'm trying
to figure out how to
make it intuitive to everybody.
Yeah. I think it should
be taught. It's something that
I feel like feel that
should be taught in schools.
And if there are so
many opportunities to teach that
type of thinking in schools,
even in managing homework schedules
and how you return your
homework to teachers, you know,
if I do this by
this date, then I need
to do this next and
this happened. So I think
we could teach that and
how our kids manage just
that our kids have their
own schedules as well. And
when things happen, there are
consequences to those things. So
there are tons of opportunities
to use the, if, then
else types of thinking and
dealing with children. Yeah. It
does seem like I could
making this. This probably is
a thing already, but I
was going to make up
this idea of consequential thinking,
like I'm still trying to
get it across to my
children. Like, you know, they
are, they are young, they
are seven and nine, but
it's like, if you do
this, this is going to
happen. And then five minutes
later, they do it. And
I was like, I literally
told you this was going
to happen. And yeah. Yeah.
There's a, there's a maturity.
There's a, there's a, a
pop that hasn't happened yet.
Yes. Well, some of it
also, I find another thing
that's missing is giving people
permission to break things or
to fail. So some of
teaching consequences is allowing someone
to actually fail so that
they can see the impact
of that consequence. And the
same thing applies to software
development. There are very few
spaces where people can just
fail and, and you know,
that you give people permission
to fail and to break
things and to take things
apart and to see how
things work when you don't
use best practices, for example,
performance, you know, writing bloated
code and the performance over
time. You know, you often
don't have an to see
how that impacts a larger
system until it's in production.
That's a very, very valid
point. I think that that
probably feeds why people feel
here about a lot of
about imposter syndrome and people
feeling like they are in
over their heads because you
know, you do your, you
do your degree or you
do your code camp and
you got a job and
now the pressure's on. Yeah.
But there's no, you don't
really have a flexible open-minded
approach to go and execute
solutions. But I know that
you, you believe that people
should have that flexible approach
They should. And that's how
some people learn best. Actually,
some people learn best just
by doing a and then
they learn from their mistakes
and it sticks more so
than it does when you
kind of teach them and
lecture them. And they take
notes and, you know, a
person could academically know best
practices, but not understand why
they are best practices. So
some people learn better just
by doing and failing and
so creating spaces. And you
know, of course you wouldn't
do this on mission, critical
projects or revenue generating projects,
but creating spaces for people
to actually play around, break
things and test their theories
out, to see why the
best practices are the way
they are. I want to
take a brief moment to
thank my sponsors sync fusion
this week, the first and
only complete Hadoop distribution designed
for windows is now available
from sync fusion. You can
literally deploy a production ready,
big data cluster in minutes.
This revolutionary big data platform
will not only change the
way that you approach big
data, but it is 100%
free for everyone with free
commercial support for sync fusion,
plus members learn more at
sync, fusion.com/big data. I think
that being able to have
that 20% time or that
Friday hackathon where you can
make a chat program for
the, for the office. Yes,
yes, exactly. We might someday
be mission critical, but right
now we're just playing, Just
playing around. Yeah. And we're
actually, we're actually doing a
hackathon here next Tuesday on
an idea that we had
in a meeting and, you
know, with our schedule, we,
that we really didn't have
any time during the business
day. And so we just
decided to carve out some
apps an afternoon, carve out
some time before the holiday
to do a hackathon and
everyone's looking forward to it
because they rarely get a
chance to do that. Hmm.
That's pretty cool. Yeah. And
you're doing that like as
the, as the CEO, as
a founder is like, this
is important. So this is
an organizational value that we
think needs to happen, Please.
Very important. I'm actually participating
in it. I don't often
get a chance to touch
the code these days. So
I actually be helping on
writing some of the code,
but it's an opportunity for
us to learn some new
things and to play around
with some new ideas. Yeah.
I guess if you're going
to like decide as a
company we're going to do
angular or we're going to
do Ember, do you really
want to do that on
a revenue generating thing the
very first time? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. You want to, I
mean, you could learn, of
course, you know, could send
people to courseworks and they
can learn, but there's nothing
like actually doing it and
it in the real world.
And you know, when we
create these programs, you know,
we'll put them in a
pilot phase. Sometimes we'll have
an idea for a community
to use it and we'll
pilot it and see how
it works, works a lot,
just like Google labs. And
some of the other companies
have these labs that they
create these ideas and they
see how they work. Sometimes
they work, sometimes they don't.
Yeah. And now you have
a consultancy. So people are,
I assume, multidisciplinary, you probably
have people that are database
people and people who are
web people. Do you expect
people to know the full
stack? I feel like there's
a lot of talk right
now about, we need to
make full stack developers, but
I don't know about you,
but I feel like there's
a lot more to know
than there was 20 years
ago when I started, There's
a, there's a huge amount
of information to know. And
also things are changing so
rapidly. So, you know, so
as you learn a concept,
there's something new to learn.
So usually I look for
people that know how to
learn new technologies. So I'm
real big on having a
person demonstrate that they can
learn a new technology and
to articulate, how did you
learn that technology? What's your
approach? Everyone has a different
approach. Certainly. I want someone
with a fundamental background. We
tend to work with people
in the computer science area
because they have a fundamental
conceptual background of the computer
sciences. And then to adopt
new technologies is really important.
You know, I tend to
give talks at conferences and
people often assume that I'm
somehow an expert. And I
prefer to, I prefer the
term enthusiastic amateur. I mean,
like I can learn something,
maybe put a week or
two into it and then
present certainly on the one
Oh one said technology. But
unfortunately people will look at
me and say, Oh, wow,
look, how did you become
an expert in that so
quickly? I'm like, no, anyone
should be able to do
that. So when I was
the chief architect at my
last job, we would have
Brown bags and we'd assign
technologies and you have to
go and study it and
then come back and talk
about it. And a lot
of people simply the, the,
the, bring it into your
brain process, it make your
analogies and express. It is
almost impossible because I don't
think it's taught, It's not
taught. And also this is
a great approach because teaching
someone a concept is a
good way to learn a
new concept just in having
to teach other people how
to use it. We generally,
we have some of our
developers, of course, they prefer
a front end versus back
end development. And so generally
they work in that space.
I do require that people
know how things work. That's,
that's a fundamental concept that
I want everyone to understand
how things work. We work
in web and mobile space.
So how does the internet
work? You must understand that
in order to work here.
And that's because in thinking
about our operations and how
we support our clients, we
can't support our clients. If
we don't understand how things
work, because when things break,
you must be able to
fix them. When was in
school, we Learned, you know,
fundamentals are TCP IP and
seven layer typology and things
like that. But I don't
know where people learn this
stuff. Like I always thought
it was fun to tell
net into a web server
and see, you know, like
type HTTP ones, lash one
type that yourself at the
command and pretend you are
a web browser. I think
that's like, Oh, that's so
cool. I tried that at
a code camp with some
kids recently. And they thought
that was pretty stupid. It
was like, why are you
talking to the low level
like this? I thought we
were going to learn about
how Instagram works. Yeah, yeah.
You know, because that's the
sexy part. You know, the
stuff you can see, everyone
wants to work there, but
again, you know, allowing people
to go through the process
and to actually experience some
of these challenges, teaches them
why it's important to know
these things. So when apps
and sites go offline, then
it's very important to know
some of these concepts, if
you're going to support those
applications. One of the things
that you said was important,
and I agree is the
idea of diverse teams and
the term diversity is often
used to express color and
gender, but this is about
diversity in thought and diversity
in, in, in roles. Absolutely.
Yeah. Our teams always have
a subject matter expert, which,
you know, it's usually a
non technical person that doesn't
think very technically, but is
an expert on the subject
matter. So there's diversity there.
You know, for example, we
worked on an application that
was related to job postings
and one of the team
members is a human resource
professional. So this person doesn't
have a technical knowledge, but
they understand how people are,
how people are recruited for
employment. And they were an
integral part of that team.
And they were involved from
the start to the finish.
And so teams, diversity and
roles, diversity and divisions, for
example, systems that affect other
systems and having people that
are involved on the other
end of the spectrum to
be involved in the project,
whether it's a customer or
client or another division, there's
a diversity and background. And
that includes racial and ethnic.
And some of these other
gender diversity, these are, it's
really important as we're thinking
about understanding how systems work,
everyone has a different perspective
of how our system works
based on their involvement in
the system. And so that's
why it's important to have
diversity on teams because they
bring a different perspective and
it prevents working in silos
with one types of one
type of thinking, one train
of thought, Right? Even also
in user experience. Yes. If,
if everyone in the team
is the same age, same
gender all looks the same.
They're all going to have
their similar backgrounds coloring, how
they want to interact with
that, that, that product. However,
Yeah. Yeah. It comes up
a lot, particularly in user
interface design, you know, we've,
we've had younger teams work
on projects front end. It
looks great. Everyone thinks it
looks great. You present it
to an older team. And
the first thing they say
is I can't read that
you need to increase the
font size. What is this?
I can't read that. I
can't see it. It's too
much information. And so it
comes up a lot in
user interface. The area is
very important to have diversity,
particularly in age. And some
of these other factors. One
of the other things that
I think is interesting is
how troubleshooting and problem solving
has kind of evolved. I
feel like, and I'm, I'm,
I'm dating myself, but I
just feel like I'm getting
a little bit, kind of
get off my lawn, but
you know, it was hard,
you know, troubleshooting was hard
back in the day. And
like, we appreciated a good
like CSI type of a
story where it's like, ah,
I debugged it down to
the protocol layer. A lot
of people seem to assume
that the internet is a
black box and they reach
a certain level and they
just think, Oh, I guess
I can go no farther.
I put, I put that
bite on the wire and
the miracle happened. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. They have troubleshooting. Gosh
is the thing that, you
know, no one wants to
do, but it's the thing
that really makes a breaks
project. And also it's the
area that uncovers when people
don't know how things work,
you see it really in
this area of support and
maintenance, you know, if you've
ever called your cable provider
to try to get support
or your cable service, you
know, a lot of times
you'll, you'll feel it, that
the person that you're on
the phone with ha they
have no idea how the
system works. They cannot help
you. They following a script
and you're not getting anywhere.
And it takes you days.
So in terms of troubleshooting,
you know, we, we like
to start with the basics.
You know, it's basically, you
have to communicate and understand
what the person is trying
to accomplish first. And sometimes
people skip that step. You
know, you'd be amazed at
how people just skip the
step. What exactly are you
trying to do? You know,
we've had scenarios where people
will call and say, I
have a problem with this.
And you find out that
they're not even trying to
accomplish what you think they're
trying to accomplish and had
to ask that question. You
could have just walked them
through it and there's no
code to be touched, but
when you make assumptions and
you don't, you know, follow
a systematic method for troubleshooting,
you know, you could have
a team of 20 engineers,
you know, working on something
that doesn't need to be
fixed. You know? So this
happens a lot, but using
systematic methods for troubleshooting is
extremely important. It's one of
my, one of my biggest
pet peeves. I actually, Yeah.
Breaking something down a binary,
searching a problem. People don't
think about like, what that
exactly means. The idea like,
well, this happened here and
then, you know, what exactly
what happened next? What happened
next? Yeah. Yeah. And in
terms of thinking about giving
people the space to break
things in terms of troubleshooting,
that's another area where it's,
you know, a good place
where people to kind of
test when this happens, that
happens when this, this decreases,
what happens if I turn
this off, what happens if
I turn this on, would
have happened. If I activate
this feature, how does that
impact things? And as systems
become more complex, you know,
in terms of web and
mobile systems, you know, we
have over 200 types of
hybrid development tools. You have,
you know, the browser compatibility
issues that so many layers
of things that could go
wrong, that it's really important
for people to use systematic
approaches as they're troubleshooting. The,
one of the stories that
troubleshooting story that I was
told was that someone came
into a cell phone or
a mobile phone person, him
into a sales office and
said, I need a bigger
antenna. And they were just
yelling and screaming and they
wanted a bigger antenna and
they would not let that
go. They insisted that there's
a problem and I need
a bigger antenna, but it
turned out that what they
wanted was better perception. And
they ended up leaving with
a cell phone that had
an embedded antennas. There's no
visible antenna at all. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. And you find
that a lot. And that
goes back to you though,
to the point about sometimes
the solution is not writing
more code, you know, another
solution, you know, in terms
of customers coming with, I
need this, could you enhance
the system so that it
does this and not thinking
from a systems perspective, you,
you know, go hammering away
writing code. That's exactly how
we create these bloated systems
is reacting. Every time someone
makes a request instead of
having a conversation regarding the
intent and how this impacts
the larger system. I really
liked the idea that, that
you have creating a safe
place to be Definitely. Yeah.
And it's really important. And
in terms of, you know,
there, there are a lot
of movements around getting more
underrepresented populations and technology. I
think one of the things
that would help in that
area is to, is exposure.
You know, a lot of
times people aren't exposed to
enough technology. And the reason
that exposure's important is, you
know, for people that have
access to technology, it, particularly
at home, they could play
around with things. They break
things, they have hobbies, you
know, they're constantly, they have
side projects. And so it
gives them a space to
kind of learn through doing,
for folks that are not
as exposed. You know, they're
kind of thrown into the
deep end of the pool
and they have to play
catch up. And so that's
why it's very important for
us to create these spaces
for people to break things
so that they can learn
how things work. I was
at the, the maker fair
here in Portland. And one
of the companies here in
Oregon, that's very well known
as the Leatherman group, right.
They make Leatherman tools and
I'm thinking, why is the
Leatherman? Why are they here?
And what they had done
is they went to Goodwill
or thrift store bought a
whole bunch of stuff, DVD
players, just a bunch of
junk. And they gave everyone
a Leatherman tool and they
told all the children to
break these things and take
them apart. So you would
have, you know, ten-year-olds that
had never seen inside of
a CD player, opening them
up and taking them apart
with a Leatherman and then
figuring out, I didn't know,
that's how it, you know,
Yeah. You don't, that's how
you learn how things work.
That's how I learned, you
know, how things work around
my house. My husband is
the person that, you know,
does the electronics and hooks
up everything at home when
he's not there. You know,
I just start unplugging things.
I'm like, okay, if I
unplug that car, then that
doesn't work. So let me
plug it back in, let
me see what happens here.
If I push this button.
And that's a lot of
times, that's how things work.
Of course you take it
a step further because you
want to understand the technology
and what, you know, the
little label and what things
are called. But you know,
that's exactly how people learn.
Doesn't it seem like if,
if normal people, if nontechnical
people who, who aren't like
you, and I knew that
troubleshooting was just unplugging stuff
and thinking and thinking like,
they think that there's a,
there's a secret. Every time,
every time I leave the
country for some trip, that's
when something breaks, the internet
will work for a month.
I get on a plane
it's dead the next day.
And my wife will call
me and she say something
in the house is beeping.
I don't know what you
want me to do about
that. And then she says,
well, how do I fix
it? And then I'm literally
explaining to her, well, go
into each room and listen,
if you think that thing's
beeping and if you hear
something beeping, unplug it and
see it. Yeah. There's a
magic. This is a woman
with an MBA, but she
just doesn't have the systems
thinking. So she thinks that's
amazing. And that's literally all
we do. That's all trouble
shooting is just start flipping
switches and drawing conclusion. Yeah.
You draw a conclusion to
that. You know, of course
sometimes you draw your conclusions
a little quicker than others
because of your background and
your training, but that's really
what it is, you know,
at home, you know, they
think I'm a genius when
the internet goes down, but
I'm like unplugging the route
or waiting 60 seconds, I
plug it back up and
I'm like, okay, we're good.
And they're like, she fixed
it, you know, but, but
you know, I've learned that
that pattern works and, you
know, I've spoken to, you
have taken it a step
further to understand why, you
know, when they refresh the
IP addresses and everything, how
those things work, but it's
very important. And I'd love
to see more opportunities in
terms of some of these
coding, extra events and hackathons
for people to do a
little more thinking. And there's
an opportunity, you know, from
a community standpoint for these
groups to create community solution
so that you're not just
training people, the right, if
then L statements and to
use a raise and, and
to write loops. But they're
actually thinking about what they're
doing so that they can
write meaningful code. And also
another thought that I had
is to actually have challenges
so that people can figure
out how to write less
code. How can you structure
your code so that there's
less lines of code that
requires a certain level of
thinking as well. And that's
something that, you know, people
don't look into unless you
have a performance issue. And
then people start looking at
the lines of code and
the bloat from that perspective.
But we could teach some
these things earlier. I think
Twitter is a great example
of how, if you have
a great vocabulary, you could
tweet something meaningful and 140
characters and programming could be
the same way. If you
know the programming syntax and
the language you could write
code that doesn't require a
huge number of lines of
code. If you're thinking from
a systems perspective, Right. And
also understanding, understanding the syntax
versus understanding the idioms. Yes.
Like I can make myself
understood in Spanish, but I
don't have idiomatic Spanish. I
can make myself understood in
Ruby, but I am in
no Mo no means by
no means I, my be
an idiomatic, Ruby developer, mine
would have more lines of
code than isn't it. Yes,
exactly. Exactly. And so that's
important as well. And it's
something you, that's a step
beyond the thinking, but I
think it's something that we
can start to think about
as we're engaging some of
the perspective professionals and technology.
Well, thanks so much for
chatting with me today about
systems. Thank you so much,
Scott. I appreciate it. People
can check you out at
K I S H a
U on Twitter and at
Webb Smith group. Yes. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week. .